README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <br />
  <br />
  <a href="https://www.guardsquare.com/proguard">
    <img
      src="https://www.guardsquare.com/hubfs/Logos/ProGuard-Logo-Email.png"
      alt="ProGuard" width="400">
  </a>
</p>

<!-- Badges -->
<p align="center">
  <!-- CI -->
  <a href="https://github.com/Guardsquare/proguard/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Continuous+Integration%22">
    <img src="https://github.com/Guardsquare/proguard/workflows/Continuous%20Integration/badge.svg">
  </a>
  
  <!-- Github version -->
  <!--
  <a href="releases">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/guardsquare/proguard">
  </a>
  -->
    
  <!-- Maven -->
  <a href="https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:com.guardsquare">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.guardsquare/proguard-base">
  </a>
  
  <!-- License -->
  <a href="LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/guardsquare/proguard">
  </a>

  <!-- Twitter -->
  <a href="https://twitter.com/Guardsquare">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/guardsquare?style=social">
  </a>
</p>

<br />
<p align="center">
  <a href="#-quick-start"><b>Quick Start</b></a> •
  <a href="#-features"><b>Features</b></a> •
  <a href="#-contributing"><b>Contributing</b></a> •
  <a href="#-license"><b>License</b></a>
</p>
<br />

ProGuard is a free shrinker, optimizer, obfuscator, and preverifier for Java
bytecode:

* It detects and removes unused classes, fields, methods, and attributes.

* It optimizes bytecode and removes unused instructions.

* It renames the remaining classes, fields, and methods using short
  meaningless names.

The resulting applications and libraries are smaller, faster, and a bit better
hardened against reverse engineering. ProGuard is very popular for Android
development, but it also works for Java code in general.

## ❓ Getting Help
If you have **usage or general questions** please ask them in the <a href="https://community.guardsquare.com/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=site-link&utm_campaign=github-community">**Guardsquare Community**.</a>  
Please use <a href="https://github.com/guardsquare/proguard/issues">**the issue tracker**</a> to report actual **bugs 🐛, crashes**, etc.
<br />
<br />

## 🚀 Quick Start

ProGuard has its own Gradle plugin, allowing you to shrink, optimize and obfuscate Android projects. 

### ProGuard Gradle Plugin

You can apply the ProGuard Gradle plugin in AGP 4+ projects by following these steps:

1. Add a `classpath` dependency in your root level `build.gradle` file:

```Groovy
buildscript {
    repositories {
        google()       // For the Android Gradle plugin.
        mavenCentral() // For the ProGuard Gradle Plugin and anything else.
    }
    dependencies {
        classpath 'com.android.tools.build:gradle:x.y.z'    // The Android Gradle plugin.
        classpath 'com.guardsquare:proguard-gradle:7.1.0'  // The ProGuard Gradle plugin.
    }
}
```

2. Apply the `proguard` plugin after applying the Android Gradle plugin as shown below:

```Groovy
 apply plugin: 'com.android.application'
 apply plugin: 'com.guardsquare.proguard'
```

3. ProGuard expects unobfuscated class files as input. Therefore, other obfuscators such as R8 have to be disabled.

```Groovy
android {
    ...
    buildTypes {
       release {
          // Deactivate R8.
          minifyEnabled false
       }
    }
}
```

4. Configure variants to be processed with ProGuard using the `proguard` block:

```Groovy
android {
    ...
}

proguard {
   configurations {
      release {
         defaultConfiguration 'proguard-android-optimize.txt'
         configuration 'proguard-project.txt'
      }
   }
}
```

You can then build your application as usual:

```shell
gradle assembleRelease
```

The repository contains some sample configurations in the [examples](examples)
directory. Notably, [examples/android](examples/android-plugin) has a small working
Android project that applies the ProGuard Gradle plugin.

### Integrated ProGuard (AGP < 7.0)

If you have an older Android Gradle project you can enable ProGuard instead of the default R8 compiler:

1. Disable R8 in your `gradle.properties`:

```gradle
android.enableR8=false
android.enableR8.libraries=false
```

2. Override the default version of ProGuard with the most recent one in your
   main `build.gradle`:

```gradle
buildscript {
    //...
    configurations.all {
        resolutionStrategy {
            dependencySubstitution {
                substitute module('net.sf.proguard:proguard-gradle') with module('com.guardsquare:proguard-gradle:7.1.0')
            }
        }
    }
}
```

3. Enable minification as usual in your `build.gradle`:

```gradle
android {
    //...
    buildTypes {
        release {
            minifyEnabled   true
            shrinkResources true
            proguardFile getDefaultProguardFile('proguard-android-optimize.txt')
            proguardFile 'proguard-project.txt'
        }
    }
}
```

4. Add any necessary configuration to your `proguard-project.txt`.

You can then build your application as usual:

```shell
gradle assembleRelease
```

The repository contains some sample configurations in the [examples](examples)
directory. Notably, [examples/android-agp3-agp4](examples/android-agp3-agp4) has a small working
Android project that uses the old integration.

## ✨ Features

ProGuard works like an advanced optimizing compiler, removing unused classes,
fields, methods, and attributes, shortening identifiers, merging classes,
inlining methods, propagating constants, removing unused parameters, etc.

* The optimizations typically reduce the size of an application by anything
  between 20% and 90%. The reduction mostly depends on the size of external
  libraries that ProGuard can remove in whole or in part.

* The optimizations may also improve the performance of the application, by up
  to 20%. For Java virtual machines on servers and desktops, the difference
  generally isn't noticeable. For the Dalvik virtual machine and ART on
  Android devices, the difference can be worth it.

* ProGuard can also remove logging code, from applications and their
  libraries, without needing to change the source code &mdash; in fact,
  without needing the source code at all!

The manual pages ([markdown](docs/md),
[html](https://www.guardsquare.com/proguard/manual)) cover the features and usage of
ProGuard in detail.

## 💻 Building ProGuard

Building ProGuard is easy - you'll just need a Java 8 JDK installed.

The artifacts will be generated in the `lib` directory. You can then execute ProGuard using the
scripts in `bin`, for example:

```bash
bin/proguard.sh
```

You can publish the artifacts to your local Maven repository using:

```bash
./gradlew publishToMavenLocal
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions, issues and feature requests are welcome in both projects.
Feel free to check the [issues](issues) page and the [contributing
guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) if you would like to contribute.

## 📝 License

Copyright (c) 2002-2020 [Guardsquare NV](https://www.guardsquare.com/).
ProGuard is released under the [GNU General Public License, version
2](LICENSE), with [exceptions granted to a number of
projects](docs/md/license.md).

Commit message:

Add command to build ProGuard from source to README

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <br />
  <br />
  <a href="https://www.guardsquare.com/proguard">
    <img
      src="https://www.guardsquare.com/hubfs/Logos/ProGuard-Logo-Email.png"
      alt="ProGuard" width="400">
  </a>
</p>

<!-- Badges -->
<p align="center">
  <!-- CI -->
  <a href="https://github.com/Guardsquare/proguard/actions?query=workflow%3A%22Continuous+Integration%22">
    <img src="https://github.com/Guardsquare/proguard/workflows/Continuous%20Integration/badge.svg">
  </a>
  
  <!-- Github version -->
  <!--
  <a href="releases">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/guardsquare/proguard">
  </a>
  -->
    
  <!-- Maven -->
  <a href="https://search.maven.org/search?q=g:com.guardsquare">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/com.guardsquare/proguard-base">
  </a>
  
  <!-- License -->
  <a href="LICENSE">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/guardsquare/proguard">
  </a>

  <!-- Twitter -->
  <a href="https://twitter.com/Guardsquare">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/guardsquare?style=social">
  </a>
</p>

<br />
<p align="center">
  <a href="#-quick-start"><b>Quick Start</b></a> •
  <a href="#-features"><b>Features</b></a> •
  <a href="#-contributing"><b>Contributing</b></a> •
  <a href="#-license"><b>License</b></a>
</p>
<br />

ProGuard is a free shrinker, optimizer, obfuscator, and preverifier for Java
bytecode:

* It detects and removes unused classes, fields, methods, and attributes.

* It optimizes bytecode and removes unused instructions.

* It renames the remaining classes, fields, and methods using short
  meaningless names.

The resulting applications and libraries are smaller, faster, and a bit better
hardened against reverse engineering. ProGuard is very popular for Android
development, but it also works for Java code in general.

## ❓ Getting Help
If you have **usage or general questions** please ask them in the <a href="https://community.guardsquare.com/?utm_source=github&utm_medium=site-link&utm_campaign=github-community">**Guardsquare Community**.</a>  
Please use <a href="https://github.com/guardsquare/proguard/issues">**the issue tracker**</a> to report actual **bugs 🐛, crashes**, etc.
<br />
<br />

## 🚀 Quick Start

ProGuard has its own Gradle plugin, allowing you to shrink, optimize and obfuscate Android projects. 

### ProGuard Gradle Plugin

You can apply the ProGuard Gradle plugin in AGP 4+ projects by following these steps:

1. Add a `classpath` dependency in your root level `build.gradle` file:

```Groovy
buildscript {
    repositories {
        google()       // For the Android Gradle plugin.
        mavenCentral() // For the ProGuard Gradle Plugin and anything else.
    }
    dependencies {
        classpath 'com.android.tools.build:gradle:x.y.z'    // The Android Gradle plugin.
        classpath 'com.guardsquare:proguard-gradle:7.1.0'  // The ProGuard Gradle plugin.
    }
}
```

2. Apply the `proguard` plugin after applying the Android Gradle plugin as shown below:

```Groovy
 apply plugin: 'com.android.application'
 apply plugin: 'com.guardsquare.proguard'
```

3. ProGuard expects unobfuscated class files as input. Therefore, other obfuscators such as R8 have to be disabled.

```Groovy
android {
    ...
    buildTypes {
       release {
          // Deactivate R8.
          minifyEnabled false
       }
    }
}
```

4. Configure variants to be processed with ProGuard using the `proguard` block:

```Groovy
android {
    ...
}

proguard {
   configurations {
      release {
         defaultConfiguration 'proguard-android-optimize.txt'
         configuration 'proguard-project.txt'
      }
   }
}
```

You can then build your application as usual:

```shell
gradle assembleRelease
```

The repository contains some sample configurations in the [examples](examples)
directory. Notably, [examples/android](examples/android-plugin) has a small working
Android project that applies the ProGuard Gradle plugin.

### Integrated ProGuard (AGP < 7.0)

If you have an older Android Gradle project you can enable ProGuard instead of the default R8 compiler:

1. Disable R8 in your `gradle.properties`:

```gradle
android.enableR8=false
android.enableR8.libraries=false
```

2. Override the default version of ProGuard with the most recent one in your
   main `build.gradle`:

```gradle
buildscript {
    //...
    configurations.all {
        resolutionStrategy {
            dependencySubstitution {
                substitute module('net.sf.proguard:proguard-gradle') with module('com.guardsquare:proguard-gradle:7.1.0')
            }
        }
    }
}
```

3. Enable minification as usual in your `build.gradle`:

```gradle
android {
    //...
    buildTypes {
        release {
            minifyEnabled   true
            shrinkResources true
            proguardFile getDefaultProguardFile('proguard-android-optimize.txt')
            proguardFile 'proguard-project.txt'
        }
    }
}
```

4. Add any necessary configuration to your `proguard-project.txt`.

You can then build your application as usual:

```shell
gradle assembleRelease
```

The repository contains some sample configurations in the [examples](examples)
directory. Notably, [examples/android-agp3-agp4](examples/android-agp3-agp4) has a small working
Android project that uses the old integration.

## ✨ Features

ProGuard works like an advanced optimizing compiler, removing unused classes,
fields, methods, and attributes, shortening identifiers, merging classes,
inlining methods, propagating constants, removing unused parameters, etc.

* The optimizations typically reduce the size of an application by anything
  between 20% and 90%. The reduction mostly depends on the size of external
  libraries that ProGuard can remove in whole or in part.

* The optimizations may also improve the performance of the application, by up
  to 20%. For Java virtual machines on servers and desktops, the difference
  generally isn't noticeable. For the Dalvik virtual machine and ART on
  Android devices, the difference can be worth it.

* ProGuard can also remove logging code, from applications and their
  libraries, without needing to change the source code &mdash; in fact,
  without needing the source code at all!

The manual pages ([markdown](docs/md),
[html](https://www.guardsquare.com/proguard/manual)) cover the features and usage of
ProGuard in detail.

## 💻 Building ProGuard

Building ProGuard is easy - you'll just need a Java 8 JDK installed. 
To build from source, clone a copy of the ProGuard repository and run the following command:

```bash
./gradlew assemble
```

The artifacts will be generated in the `lib` directory. You can then execute ProGuard using the
scripts in `bin`, for example:

```bash
bin/proguard.sh
```

You can publish the artifacts to your local Maven repository using:

```bash
./gradlew publishToMavenLocal
```

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions, issues and feature requests are welcome in both projects.
Feel free to check the [issues](issues) page and the [contributing
guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) if you would like to contribute.

## 📝 License

Copyright (c) 2002-2020 [Guardsquare NV](https://www.guardsquare.com/).
ProGuard is released under the [GNU General Public License, version
2](LICENSE), with [exceptions granted to a number of
projects](docs/md/license.md).
